# (1Y)-1Z

> Whenever there is a debate between forcing and non-forcing responses, choose
> transfer responses!
>
> ---*I, Chen-Pang He (jdh8) @BTU, 2024*

<div class="warning">

I sometimes relabel suit variables from the main title.

- (1X)-1Y
- (1X)-1Z
- (1Y)-1Z

I use these formulae interchangeably to accommodate a new-coming strain, e.g.

- (1X)-1Y-1Z
- (1X)-1Z-2Y
- (1Y)-1Z-2X
</div>

In competitive bidding, we want more space for raises.  On the other hand,
notrump already shows length or strength in the adverse suit.  The "standard"
and naïve approach is to reuse the cuebids for forcing raises.  However, there
are two reasons to use **Rubens advances** AKA **transfer** advances.

There is a debate if new suit advances are forcing or not.  For a suit lower
than Y (say X), forcing is decent.  Aggressor has a cheap cuebid [(1Y)-1Z-2X;
2Y!] to show opening strength, similar to Drury.  Nevertheless, when the auction
goes (1X)-1Z-2Y, opener has a problem to rebid a minimum opening hand without a
stopper:

- 2Z: utterly an underbid
- 2NT: lies about the stopper
- 3Y: an overbid

On the other hand, it is not the most effective to allocate forcing bids at
cuebids.  When we have a fit, we have little interest in exploring side suits.
Space between the forcing raise and Z is unnecessary.  Therefore, it is the most
useful to let Z &minus; 1 transfer to Z.  Consequently, the strains
Y[`..`][Range]Z map to the suits Y + 1 [`..=`][RangeInclusive] Z.

[Range]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/ops/struct.Range.html
[RangeInclusive]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/ops/struct.RangeInclusive.html

<pre>
*** High strains

Raises are natural and non-forcing.  Note that the overcall occasionally
contains only 4 cards.  We always raise to the 3-level with 4+ trumps.

Z, a suit higher than Y, is always a major suit.  Bidding 1Z is forcing for
constructiveness. Jump advances in Z are preemptive.

Notrump advances are natural in the sense of showing length or a stopper in the
adverse suit.

(1X)-1Y-
1Z = F, 4+#, usually 8+ HCP
1N = NAT, 9--12 HCP
2Y = CONST, 3+#
2Z = PRE, 6+#
2N = NAT INV, 13--15 HCP
3Y = PRE, 4+#

As 1Z is pretty similar to a direct overcall, aggressor somehow mirrors the
auction but without Rubens advances.  Aggressor does not have a weak hand with
6+# because they would have jumped in the first place.

(1m)-1Y-1M-
1N = NAT, at most 12 HCP
2m = LIM+, 3+ SUPP
2X = NAT, 9--14 points, 4+#
2Y = NAT, 12--14 points, 6+#
2Z = NAT, 12--17 points, 4+#
2M = CONST, 3+#
2N = NAT INV, 13--15 HCP
3m = CONST, 4+ SUPP
3X = NAT, 15--17 points, 4+#
3Y = NAT, 15--17 points, 6+#
3M = PRE, 4+#

*** Low strains

Let's reword the auction as (1Y)-1Z to discuss X, a suit lower than Y. X is
always a minor suit.  We are more interested in 3NT than a minor suit game.
Therefore, we bear the presence of a stopper in mind.  Sometimes we have to bid
a 4-card 2X because we lack a stopper to bid notrump.

Aggressor still has the chance to query a stopper with a cuebid.  That is why we
can bid fairly naturally here.

(1Y)-1Z-
2X = F unless by PH, 9+ HCP, usually 5+#
3X = INV, 6+#

Rebidding to a lower strain is similar to 2/1 or Drury.  Returning to the own
suit is the weakest action.  If advancer has passed, it is also good to pass
with a balanced minimum.

(1Y)-1M-2m-
2Y = F, 12--17 points
2M = MIN, 9--11 points, 5+#
2N = NAT INV, 12--14 HCP
3m = MIN, 9--11 points, usually 4+#
3M = NAT, 15--17 points, 6+#

*** Middle strains

The other suits are Rubens advances.  Cuebids and suits in between are
transfers.  After rephrasing the auction as (1X)-1Z, Y is a suit in between.
There is no distinction between X and Y.  Transfer supports are special
nevertheless.

- *4steps = 2Z − 1*: limit raise or better, 3+ support
- *9steps = 3Z − 1*: mixed raise, 4+ support
- *Other 2XY*: 9+ HCP, usually 5+ cards
- *Other 3XY*: Game try with 6+ cards

Despite that we have skipped the cuebid, aggressor can dissuade further
investigation by simply accepting the transfer.

(1X)-1Z-
4steps = !TRF LIM+, 3+ support
9steps = !TRF CONST, 4+ support
2X = !TRF, 9+ HCP, usually 5+ cards
2Y = !TRF, 9+ HCP, usually 5+ cards
3X = !TRF G/T, 6+ cards
3Y = !TRF G/T, 6+ cards
</pre>